Gremlin was created after years of research into analyzing multi-relational graphs (e.g. property graphs). The following is a itemization of related articles and presentations that help provide more information about the theory and applications of Gremlin.

# "Articles":#articles
# "Presentations":#presentations

h2(#articles). Articles

Rodriguez, M.A., Neubauer, P., "A Path Algebra for Multi-Relational Graphs":http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0390, 2nd International Workshop on Graph Data Management (GDM’11), ICDE Proceedings, IEEE, in press, December 2010.

Rodriguez M.A., Shinavier, J., "Exposing Multi-Relational Networks to Single-Relational Network Analysis Algorithms":http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2274, Journal of Informetrics, volume 4, number 1, pages 29-41, ISSN:1751-1577, Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.joi.2009.06.004, LA-UR-08-03931, December 2009.

Rodriguez, M.A., Neubauer, P., "The Graph Traversal Pattern":http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1001, Graph Data Management: Techniques and Applications, eds. S. Sakr, E. Pardede, IGI Global, in press, December 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., Neubauer, P., "Constructions from Dots and Lines":http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2361, Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, American Society for Information Science and Technology, volume 36, number 6, pages 35-41, ISSN:1550-8366, August 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., "Grammar-Based Random Walkers in Semantic Networks":http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4355, Knowledge-Based Systems, volume 21, issue 7, pages 727-739, ISSN:0950-7051, Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.knosys.2008.03.030, LA-UR-06-7791, October 2008. 

Rodriguez, M.A., Watkins, J.H., "Grammar-Based Geodesics in Semantic Networks":http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0670, Knowledge-Based Systems, volume 23, number 8, pages 844-855, doi:10.1016/j.knosys.2010.05.009, ISSN:0950-7051, LA-UR-07-4042, December 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., Geldart, J., "An Evidential Path Logic for Multi-Relational Networks":http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1481, Proceedings of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Spring Symposium: Technosocial Predictive Analytics Symposium, volume SS-09-09, pages 114-119, ISBN:978-1-57735-416-1, AAAI Press, LA-UR-08-06397, Stanford University, March 2009. 

Rodriguez, M.A., "Social Decision Making with Multi-Relational Networks and Grammar-Based Particle Swarms":http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0609034, Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science (HICSS), Track: Collaboration Technology - Social Cognition and Knowledge Creation Using Collaborative Technology, pages 39-49, Waikoloa, Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society, ISSN: 1530-1605, doi:10.1109/HICSS.2007.487, LA-UR-06-2139, January 2007.

h2(#presentations). Presentations

Rodriguez, M.A., "Memoirs of a Graph Addict: Despair to Redemption":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/memoirs-of-a-graph-addict-despair-to-redemption, Invited Speaker, Winterland Wirldwind Tour, Chicago-to-Malmo, January, 2011.

Rodriguez, M.A., "Problem-Solving using Graph Traversals: Searching, Scoring, Ranking, and Recommendation":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/problemsolving-using-graph-traversals-searching-scoring-ranking-and-recommendation, Technical Talk Seminar, AT&T Interactive, Glendale, California, July 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., "The Graph Traversal Programming Pattern":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/graph-windycitydb2010, Invited Speaker, WindyCity DB, Chicago, Illinois, June 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., "Gremlin: A Graph-Based Programming Language":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/gremlin-a-graphbased-programming-language-3876581, Center for Nonlinear Studies Post Doctorate Seminar, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, February 2010.

Rodriguez, M.A., "Multi-Relational Graph Structures: From Algebra to Application":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/multirelational-graph-structures-from-algebra-to-application-3879972, Invited Speaker, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts, October 2009.

Rodriguez, M.A., "Graph Databases and the Future of Large-Scale Knowledge Management":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/graph-databases-and-the-future-of-largescale-knowledge-management, Invited Lecture for Risk Analysis Symposium, Risk Analysis of Complex Systems for National Security Applications, Decision Applications Division and the Center for Nonlinear Studies, Santa Fe, New Mexico, April 2009.

Rodriguez, M.A., "A Path Algebra for Mapping Multi-Relational Networks to Single-Relational Networks":http://www.slideshare.net/slidarko/a-path-algebra-for-mapping-multirelational-networks-to-singlerelational-networks-3876646, Center for Nonlinear Studies Post Doctorate Seminar, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, June 2008.