"Blueprints":http://blueprints.tinkerpop.com provides implementations of various Sails. Below are a list and the respective Gremlin functions to interact with those Sail graphs.

# "Linked Data Sail Functions":#linkeddatasail_functions
# "MemoryStore and NativeStore Sail Functions":#memorynativestoresail_functions
# "Neoj Sail Functions":#neo4jsail_functions

h2(#linkeddatasail_functions). LinkedData Sail Functions

h3. Open @graph lds:open(graph?)@

This function opens a LinkedData Sail connection to the Web of Data. If no graph parameter is provided, then a new MemoryStore repository is created as the local cache. If a graph parameter is provided, then that graph must be a SailGraph and that is used as the local cache for the LinkedData Sail.

bc. gremlin> $_g := lds:open()
==>sailgraph[linkeddatasail]

bc. gremlin> $_g := sail:open('/tmp/native')                             
==>sailgraph[nativestore]
gremlin> $_g := lds:open($_g)                                         
==>sailgraph[linkeddatasail]

Please see [[LinkedData Sail]] for more information on the LinkedData Sail implementation and its use with Gremlin.

h2(#memorynativestoresail_functions). Memory and Native Store Sail Functions

The "Sesame":http://www.openrdf.org/ package for processing RDF data in Java comes with two Sail implementations. One is called MemoryStore and the other is called NativeStore. The means to open either of these two types of graphs is discussed in [[Sesame Sail Quad Store]], but repeated here in order to be consistent with the the documentation sections on dealing with various Sail graphs.

h3. Open @graph sail:open(string?)@

This function opens a SAIL repository. If no string parameter is provided, then a new MemoryStore repository is created. If a string parameter is provided, then the string must be a directory for where to load a NativeStore repository or to create a new NativeStore repository.

bc. gremlin> $_g := sail:open()
==>sailgraph[memorystore]

bc. gremlin> $_g := sail:open('/tmp/native')                     
==>sailgraph[nativestore]

h2(#neo4jsail_functions). Neo4j Sail Functions

h3. Open @graph neo4jsail:open(string)@

This function opens a Neo4j Sail repository. The string parameter provided is the directory to load the Neo4j Sail repository from or to create a new Neo4j Sail repository if no such directory exists.

bc. gremlin> $_g := neo4jsail:open('/tmp/neo4jsail')
==>sailgraph[graphdatabasesail]